.\"	$NetBSD: find.1,v 1.66 2007/07/19 07:49:30 daniel Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	from: @(#)find.1	8.7 (Berkeley) 5/9/95
.\"
.\" Modified for Western Washington University CSCI 347
.Dd July 19, 2007
.Dt FIND 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm find
.Nd walk a file hierarchy
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar file
.Op Ar expression
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
recursively descends the directory tree for the
.Ar file
listed, evaluating an
.Ar expression
(composed of the
.Dq primaries
and
.Dq operands
listed below) in terms
of each file in the tree.
.Sh PRIMARIES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic -cmin Ar n
True if the difference between the time of last change of file status
information and the time
.Nm
was started, rounded up to the next full minute, is
.Ar n
minutes.
.It Ic -cnewer Ar file
True if the current file has a more recent last change time than
.Ar file  .
.It Ic -ctime Ar n
True if the difference between the time of last change of file status
information and the time
.Nm
was started, rounded up to the next full 24-hour period, is
.Ar n
24-hour periods.
.It Ic -mmin Ar n
True if the difference between the file last modification time and the time
.Nm
was started, rounded up to the next full minute, is
.Ar n
minutes.
.It Ic -mtime Ar n
True if the difference between the file last modification time and the time
.Nm
was started, rounded up to the next full 24-hour period, is
.Ar n
24-hour periods.
.It Ic -ok Ar utility Oo argument ... Oc No ;
The
.It Ic -type Ar t
True if the file is of the specified type.
Possible file types are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -offset indent -compact
.It Cm b
block special
.It Cm c
character special
.It Cm d
directory
.It Cm f
regular file
.It Cm l
symbolic link
.It Cm p
FIFO
.It Cm s
socket
.El
.Pp
.Sh OPERATORS
There are not operators at this time.  But plan for parenthesized expressions,
negation, logical and, and logical or.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility normally exits 0 on success, and exits with 1 under certain
internal error conditions.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples are shown as given to the shell:
.Bl -tag -width findx
.It Li "find  /  -type d"
Print out a list of all the directories starting with /.
.It Li "find  /  -type d -ctime 1"
Print out a list of all the directories starting with / that were changed
today.  
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr fts 3 ,
.Xr clock_gettime 2 ,
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility syntax is a superset of the syntax specified by the
.St -p1003.2
standard.
.Pp
The options and the
.Ic -cmin ,
.Ic -cnewer ,
and
.Ic -mmin 
primaries are extensions to
.St -p1003.2 .
.Pp
.Sh HISTORY
A much simpler
.Nm find
command appeared in First Edition AT\*[Am]T Unix.
The syntax had become similar to the present version by
the time of the Fifth Edition.
.Sh BUGS
The special characters used by
.Nm
are also special characters to many shell programs.
In particular, the characters
.Dq \&* ,
.Dq \&[ ,
.Dq \&] ,
.Dq \&? ,
.Dq \&( ,
.Dq \&) ,
.Dq \&! ,
.Dq \e ,
and
.Dq \&;
may have to be escaped from the shell.
.Pp
