.\"	$NetBSD: ls.1,v 1.72 2012/11/20 12:37:29 abs Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ls.1	8.7 (Berkeley) 7/29/94
.\"
.\" Modified for Western Washington University CSCI 347
.Dd November 20, 2012
.Dt LS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ls
.Nd list directory contents
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl al
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Lists the contents of the current directory in lexicographic order, one entry
per line.  Do not try to create a tabular list yet.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Include directory entries whose names begin with a
dot
.It Fl l
(The lowercase letter
.Dq ell ) .
List in long format.
(See below.)
.El
.Ss The Long Format
If the
.Fl l
option is given, the following information
is displayed for each file:
.Bl -item -offset indent -compact
.It
file mode
.It
number of links
.It
owner name
.It
group name
.It
file flags (if
.Fl o
given)
.It
number of bytes in the file
.It
abbreviated month file was last modified
.It
day-of-month file was last modified
.It
hour and minute file was last modified
.It
pathname
.El
.Pp
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stat 2,
.Xr dirent 3 ,
.Xr getopt 3 ,
.Xr opendir 3 ,
.Xr strcoll 3 ,
.Sh HISTORY
An
.Nm
utility appeared in
.At v5 .
